years after the chaos and destruction of
the second world war
the roar of the angry tribe can once
again be heard
in the streets
even in poland
in a world convulsed by existential
crises
nationalism is perhaps our own response
to the fear
that our identities and traditions are
once again under threat
in an increasingly bewildering world
[Music]
[Applause]
as politics everywhere has become
dominated by nostalgia
the longing to look back to some once
upon a time
rosy past culture has once again become
a battleground
for competing visions of what national
belonging
might mean
when the romantics brought all the
trappings of national devotion into the
world
flags and anthems songs and stories
they were creating a community of
belonging every bit
as powerful as family or church
but what they created is so viscerally
powerful
that it can also bring with it a
dangerous state of mind
if the romantic's most enduring legacy
is the belief in the power of art to
connect us to deeper truths about who we
are
than his goal ultimately was not to
divide us but to remind us that in spite
of all our differences
every human heart is the same
[Applause]
one of the messages that the romantics
left us with
it's it's possible to belong to the
family
of your own country its traditions its
stories its ballards its music
its poetry and yet belong at the same
time to humanity